# 20.440_Class_Project
This is the GitHub repository for Miranda Wang and Marissa McDonald's 20.440 Class Project
# Overview
The goal of our project was to identify altered pathways of cardiovascular immunomodulation during spaceflight that may explain the elevated risk of cardiovascular disease in astronauts. We analyzed 2 endothelial cell, 1 bulk heart, and 4 immune cell datasets to identify differential gene expression towards a pro-atherosclerotic phenotype in each cell type. We utilized EdgeR, limma, and seurat packages for differential expression analysis, performed gene set enrichment analysis and EnrichR analysis, and used CIBERSORTx, ImmuCellAI, ScType, and NicheNet for imputing cell fractions from bulk data and inferring ligand-receptor interactions. We were able to find that immune and heart expression profiles were biased towards a pro-atherosclerotic phenotype with potential interactive pathways indicating altered immunomodulatory pathways in spaceflight.
# Data
The data analyzed included 2 endothelial cell datasets, one microarray and one bulk RNA-seq available on the NASA Open Data Portal (GLDS-52) or Gene Expression Omnibus under the accession number GSE157937. Bulk heart RNA-seq data was accessed on the NASA Open Data Portal (GLDS-270). Immune cell datasets were gathered from the European Bioinformatics Institute under accession numbers E-GEOD-4209 and E-GEOD-38836 or from the NASA open data portal under accession numbers GLDS-4 and GLDS-404. 
# Folder Structure
There are three folders in this repository. The folder "Datasets" contains the files for all analysis performed in our project. The folder "CODE" houses R scripts used to generate our figures. The folder "FIGURES" holds files of all generated figures in our project.
# Installation
This repository contains the R scripts used to analyze the provided data and generate the included gene expression analysis. This scripts were generated in RStudio (Build 351) and contains code to process and analyze each dataset. All code was written by Marissa McDonald and Miranda Wang, and standard methods were used. We recommend using RStudio to run these scripts and placing the data folder on your desktop for easy access. 
